1. Social media has become one of the most important communication tools in recent years. 
1. This type of media has been playing increasingly important roles in our lives, from keeping in touch with friends and family and finding soul mates to helping find a dream job. 
1. As a matter of fact, 73 percent of Americans use social networking sites, according to a research report from September 2013.
1. However, the popularity of social media has also attracted criminals. Eighty-one percent of Internet-initiated crimes involve social networking sites. 
1. These platforms are ideal sources for criminals to obtain personal information from unsuspecting people. 
1. Information that you post publicly can be stored by anyone who finds it, and your private communications might be discovered and read by advertisers, news organizations, governments, and criminals. 
1. The vast majority of cyber crimes consist of identity theft, phishing schemes, fraud, and stealing data. 
1 .One in five adult online users report that they were targeted, while more than a million become victims of these kinds of crime every day.
1. Yet, Internet-initiated crime does not always play out online. Social networking sites are also very helpful platforms for burglars or robbers. 
1. For instance, 78 percent of burglars admit that they use social media to seek out their victims. 
1. Online street views allow them to check out their victims' properties over the Internet. 
1. Moreover, the smartphone apps for social media all offer geographical information which can reveal your exact location, thus informing potential burglars when you're away from home.
1. So try to be careful about what information you post online, keep all of your software updated, and make secure passwords that are different for each site you log on to. 
1. It is highly recommended that you disable the functions on your smartphone that show your location, at least when it comes to the social networking apps you use. 
1. Unfortunately these problems will probably never go away unless we invent a completely secure way of communicating and sharing with each other online.
